the following content is provided under
a Creative Commons license your support
will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to
offer high quality educational resources
for free
to make a donation or to view additional
materials from hundreds of MIT courses
visit MIT opencourseware at ocw.mit.edu
so I am Cathy Drennen you're going to be
learning more about me as this morning
goes on everybody should have a handout
if you do not have a handout Aaron will
come around and give you one if you just
raise your hand there's a few in the
back that just came in we will be giving
out the look for TAS as you come in the
room we'll have handouts for you every
day so look for them
and if you come in late we'll normally
leave them in the entranceway here I
know that some of you have a long walk
between classes so the handouts will be
available so when you come in grab your
handout come on into class so now let me
tell you a little more about these these
lecture notes that you can bring a pen
or a pencil to class to write on so this
is the summary for today so today is
really more about announcements and what
we're going to cover but there's some
features of today's handouts that will
that you can use throughout the semester
so summaries lecture summaries will
always have the reading for the class
for that day's class so when you're
going back over things and thinking
about it you can always look at what
reading was associated with the class
they'll also have always have a reading
for the next class so you can read ahead
which is good for the pre lecture
questions so now I want to give you a
sense of the material so we had this on
our list of topics today general
information we've gone through course
material overview and introductions to
the teaching team but it's MIT so we
need to start with a quiz the quiz is
can you tell me who these people are so
who is this
it is me this is my college yearbook
picture so one day you will have one of
these who is this it's all it's not me
people say that but thank you
it is Lisa Kudrow so who knows who Lisa
Kudrow is friends yes
so Lisa Kudrow and I were classmates we
were in the same year so you can look at
who's next to you and figure out you
know who in your row is going to be that
famous person that one day you can say
yes I was classmates with them so so
Lisa and I were classmates what do you
think Lisa went to college to study
I heard the correct answer out there it
was in fact biology what do you think I
went to college to study yeah some
people have watched my OpenCourseWare
and know these things yes theatre drama
biopsychology that's kind of like course
9 that's what I was interested in what
do you think Lisa majored in biology or
a drama
it was biology what do you think I
majored in it was chemistry and of
course we all know that Lisa is an
actress and I am a chemistry professor
so I'd like to start every class with
this because I think its sense of it
says something very important I did not
like chemistry in high school I would
schedule I was in chorus I would
schedule every one of my music lessons
during the chemistry class I did
everything to avoid having to attend
chemistry in high school and then I went
to college and they said you have to
take chemistry if you're thinking of a
bio psych Haleh
teenager and I was like I am I have
taken chemistry I'm quite convinced
chemistry bears is not relevant to
biology in any way I was told I was
wrong I was sure I was right
I took chemistry and realized that
chemistry can be very different in
different circumstances and that
everybody can find their appreciation
for chemistry at a different time in
their lives some of you right now
already like chemistry but a lot of you
probably have not found your love for
chemistry yet some of you may find that
love for chemistry during this semester
I'm hoping it'll be a large fraction of
you some of you may not find your love
for chemistry until next year or senior
year at MIT or even in graduate school
or even when you have a job later on
sometimes when I'm traveling around and
as a professor I travel the world and
give talks and I'm chatting with someone
an airplane or on a bus or something and
they say what do you do and then I say
oh you know I teach chemistry and I
always kind of watch the reaction to
that and some of them are like chemistry
and other people say boy I am an
engineer now and I have to work with
chemists all the time and I really wish
I had paid more attention in chemistry
class because we need to work together
and I need to understand more what
they're doing so some people do not find
their love or their appreciation for
chemistry till they have a career later
in life so I'm not sure when it's going
to be for all of you but if you have not
found it yet
I am hoping to find a connection your
connection to chemistry
what about chemistry relates to what you
want to do in the future
and one reason that I did not appreciate
chemistry in high school is I didn't
really understand who chemists were and
I didn't really understand what
chemistry was what people used chemistry
for and part of the reason I think were
these pictures that are often shown in
courses in intro courses for chemistry
and in your intro textbooks that's
partly why I think $8 is a good price to
spend on these
these were great chemists but they're
all dead and that really gives the
message that chemistry is not a living
discipline chemistry was the thing that
people used to do and it was exciting at
that time but then when they got rid of
their powdered wigs they moved on to
other fields so I'm gonna be showing you
some different pictures in this class
I'm going to be showing you these
pictures some of the old pictures will
be there too but every time I show you a
dead white guy I want to show you
someone who's alive so these are living
chemists people who are using chemistry
every day of their lives and I'm going
to be showing short videos of these
people telling you how they're using
chemistry and what chemistry is being
used for today so you'll be hearing and
this is a series I call in their own
words another thing that I didn't
appreciate about chemistry was in the
lab course I had we had a strong base in
a weak acid and we would drop drop drop
drop drop until it turned pink and then
we could calculate the molecular weight
of an unknown weak acid and I asked
myself this is like a real pressing
problem there are like a lot of weak
acids out there somewhere that if only
we knew the molecular way the problems
of the world would be solved but it
turns out that this is kind of a good
intro lab but it's in fact not what
chemists do every day we will learn
about titrations because we need to know
PKA because PKA is important but we
don't have a lab and we're not going to
be doing that experiment so what is
chemistry research chemistry researches
all of these following things
so creating quantum dots to be used in
surgery how do you know if the doctors
got the right amount of a tumor you
don't want to take more flesh than you
need but you don't want to miss some of
the cancer so you want to image exactly
where that cancer is chemistry is
designing sensors to find explosives in
war zones this is a really important
problem right now biofuels enter
alternative energy that's what chemistry
is using basic principles to figure out
how to design better biofuels or making
new pharmaceuticals we haven't really
produced new antibiotics in a long time
in this country and a lot of things that
we thought used to be treatable
conditions now are no longer so
treatable because we don't have new
antibiotics and the bumps are becoming
resistant to the old ones this is what
chemistry research is today this is what
you're going to be using chemical
principles for so what chemical
principles are you going to be learning
that will help you solve these
real-world problems so we need to learn
about matter and we need to know how
matter reacts so in the first half of
the course we're going to start with
atomic theory there is going to be a
little bit of history involved in that
talking about the discovery of the
nucleus electrons protons and so we're
gonna have a little bit of history and
some cool demos we're gonna move on to
the periodic table that's the chemists
toolbox those are the elements that we
can combine to make things and when we
combine them to make things they need to
bond so we're gonna talk about bonding
and they're gonna form molecules and we
need to think about the structures of
those molecules because the structures
dictate the properties of that of those
molecules of that matter and then
molecules can react so we're going to
talk about how they react and whether a
reactions gonna go is about
thermodynamics is it's going to be
spontaneous but then we also need to
know if it's faster if it's slow that's
kinetics so we're gonna cover both of
those things chemical equilibrium you
can have a reaction that goes one way
and is going in the reverse direction at
the same time and there'll be an
equilibrium constant associated with
that reaction but sometimes you really
want to go more in the forward direction
to make the thing you want to make so
you need to think about how the reaction
quotient Q is related to the equilibrium
constant K and if you're the Green
Lantern equilibrium constants are
meaningless you have the Green Lantern
ring and you can push that equilibrium
any direction that you want if you're
the Green Lantern Pugh is always greater
than K but if you're a student of
chemistry you actually can become a
superhero by learning about those
chemical principles and then you can
drive Q to be greater than K
as well so I want to teach you how to be
a superhero I also I'm going to teach
you about solubility and acid-base and
oxidation reduction reactions because
those are really the fundamental types
of reactions that occur in biology and
materials and everything and a little
unit on transition metals that little
part of the periodic table where you
have iron and cobalt and copper and
nickel and all those amazing elements
that really allow you to do the most
challenging chemical reactions those are
especially fun and if you want to have
the power of chemistry you've got to
know about the transition metals
all right so without chemistry you
wouldn't be alive your body or a series
of chemical reactions you wouldn't be
wearing the clothes that you're wearing
pretty much a chemist figured out the
material that you're wearing and or how
to process it and I think really
importantly you couldn't spell MIT
without chemistry we have the end from
physics the AI from math and we have the
T from chemistry so if you want to spell
MIT you got to learn about the ideal gas
law and you wouldn't have the paper that
you might be currently writing on
without chemistry so chemistry
you really should study chemistry
because the major challenges of our time
require chemistry knowledge to fix them
treating human disease requires an
understanding of chemistry solving the
energy problem requires an understanding
of chemistry and I believe people will
come up with alternative energy
I'm just less convinced that they're not
going to destroy the environment while
they do it so I really think we need
people thinking about solving the energy
problem who care about the environment
and can use chemistry to think about how
we can protect the environment so why do
I care so much about this and that's
because yesterday morning I walked my
daughter to her first day of first grade
she's six years old she's starting
school and I need people to know
chemistry to make the world a better
place for her so what I can do as a
mother who's a chemist is find the
smartest people I can find which I've
done
and then teach them the chemical
principles they know to make the world a
better place for my daughter
so what I'm hoping that you will do here
are my coursing objectives I said I'd
get back to these I want you to have a
working knowledge of chemistry that you
can take advanced courses starting
pretty simple that's what I want I also
want you to know enough chemistry so you
can do a UROP in a chemistry lab and
we'll talk more about the undergraduate
research program throughout the course I
would like you to employ chemistry
principles in a lab that's not a
chemistry lab in your Europe I want you
to appreciate how chemistry is used to
solve real-world problems to make
informed decisions about your health
about the environment and energy and
science policy and I want you to be able
to advance science and engineering
through the application of chemistry
principles because I want you to make
the world a better place for my for my
daughter and that's why I want you all
to have superior knowledge because my
daughter needs more than adequate
knowledge to have a better world
she needs superior knowledge so that's
my goal for all of you to teach you
these things you don't all have to
become chemists in fact it's fantastic
if you take the knowledge of chemistry
and bring it to other disciplines
because we're gonna need all the
disciplines coming together with that
solid knowledge to be able to make this
world a better place
I'll say that there are many five eleven
one superstars in this class in the past
who came in like Sarah who hated
chemistry and became a chem major and
ended up getting a PhD in chemical
biology all these folks have gone on
using chemistry not all as chemists in
biological engineering full full ride
scholarship to medical school PhD in
biology running a local pharmaceutical
company as an executive doing biophysics
out at UCSF so all of these people
learns the chemistry they needed to go
on and do great things and you can put
your picture in there okay so speaking
of people we have five minutes where I
really need to introduce you to all the
teaching team we have a huge group of
people
who
to make it possible for you to obtain
that superior knowledge of chemistry and
go on here at MIT to do great things so
I'm going to ask them all to come down
and I think we have a handheld mic and
everyone can introduce themselves and
let's bring that down actually maybe
we'll start here okay
hi everybody my name is Alena Goren I'm
going to be your course coordinator for
the semester so if you have any issues
that you feel need to be handled by
someone closer to Professor Drennan I'm
the one
I'll also be sending a lot of emails to
you guys so pay attention and I'll tell
you a little bit about clickers you'll
get an email from me about clickers very
soon hi everyone my name is Sam I am the
clicker TA so I'll be handling clickers
and clicker competitions and stuff like
that so if you have any clicker
questions you can find me before or
after class in the clicker corner I
think what I'm designating a clicker
corner so if you forget your clicker or
anything like that I encourage you not
to forget them but if you happen to
don't panic just come see me and we'll
work things out and we're supposed to
say something that I enjoy doing outside
of chemistry and graduate school so I
ski so if any skiers in the audience we
should hang out hi everyone my name is
Ashley I'll be running recitation number
eight so I look forward to meeting as
many of you as I'll have the opportunity
to meet one of the things that I enjoy
outside of chemistry is Latin dance I'm
not saying I'm any good at it but I do
try to be I run recitation and hi I'm
Erin I'm one of the to handout TAS Silva
for class you want to make sure you have
a handout before you get into class so
toe and I and probably a few other
people on some days well you're making
sure you all get handouts before you get
in class I'll be running recitation two
so I will hopefully see 25 of you or so
at 2 o'clock tomorrow and outside of
class I enjoy doing Taekwondo I'm Odin I
was lucky enough to be switched into
this class
just yesterday actually and I enjoy
hiking I spent a lot of time in the
White Mountains up in New Hampshire hi
I'm Dan I'm in recitation seven so
hopefully I'll see some of you guys
tomorrow it's at 12 o'clock and outside
of chemistry I guess some of my favorite
things to do or just play pickup games
of soccer football with my friends hi
I'm Mike on the mitx coordinator for the
class so if you have questions about
pre-lecture questions talk to me I was
also the graduate chemistry teacher here
for the last couple years so input in
quantum mechanics so I'll have office
hours on Wednesdays after class so if
you have quantum mechanics class
questions come and ask me hi I'm Lisa
I'm teaching the recitation six so if
you're in six you're with me it's gonna
be awesome I enjoy traveling and running
so usually what I like to do is every
time I go to a new place I like to go
for a run there hi my name is rose are
we teaching recitation number nine
outside of chemistry in school I enjoy
reading and being outside I go for runs
- hi I'm Eric halt
I think I'm teaching recitation five and
outside of chemistry I like to run and
play soccer and other sports hi my name
is Frank and I'm not teaching any
recitation but I'm the I will be the PTA
for the course and what I'd love to do
outside class was playing badminton
hi I'm toe like toe right here alright
seriously I'm teaching recitation number
eleven and outside chemistry I have no
interest so I just sit there and do
nothing
hi I'm Anthony
I teach recitation section number one
bright and early at 10 a.m. tomorrow
outside of chemistry I enjoy tennis and
playing piano hi my name is Eric and I
teach a recitation 10 and outside of
chemistry I like to cook hi I'm Amanda
I don't remember my recitation number
but I know it's at two o'clock in the
afternoon so maybe I'll see some of you
tomorrow
and when I'm not doing chemistry or
school I like to ride horses I grew up
on a horse farm so I have buddy I'm Jay
I'm teaching rest doing recitation
number three it's a 3 p.m. tomorrow
hopefully I'll see some of you guys
there me and Eric are the two demo TAS
so when we bring awesome demos or when
we have awesome demos in class you can
thank us and outside of chemistry I like
to I like to play tennis and table
tennis too so
you